{ "title": "Lectio Divina", "id": 5 }

Lectio divina, Latin for "sacred reading," "divine reading," or "holy reading," is a spiritual practice that has been in use for over a thousand years.  Lectio divina is an intimate way of communicating with the Lord. All too often in prayer and worship, we talk to God but don't give him a chance to communicate back to us. Lectio divina employs God's own words to have a personal conversation with him.  The four traditional stages of lectio divina are lectio (reading), meditatio (meditation), oratio (prayer), and contemplatio (contemplation). The steps were created simply to provide structure and guidance for people who wish to learn how to perform this practice. Lectio divina is best practiced with passages that you have at least some familiarity with.  Lectio divina is not intended to introduce you to something new in the Bible; its purpose is to allow you to experience and feed on what you know.

## Preparation

Before beginning the lectio divina process, it is very important to get your
heart in the right place.  Invite the Holy Spirit to come and guide you through
your experience. Calm your mind and heart in any way that will help prepare you
to meet God in the Scriptures.

## Lectio (reading)

Read through the entire passage very slowly. Take the time to note every
specific word. Think about the intentionality of the word ordering. Look for
repetition, themes, pictures, and dialogue. Try to picture yourself inside the
story.  Stay alert for a single word, phrase, verse, metaphor, or message that
catches your eye, stirs you, moves you or connects with you emotionally.

Then read through the passage again. Stop at whatever it was that really tugged
at your heart and reread that significant piece over and over. Repeat it (some
people even say the phrase out loud), lingering over the phrase.  Pretend that
the original author is speaking it to you and try to imagine the tone of voice
he might have used.

## Meditatio (meditation)

Much of this stage is about using your imagination. Think about what the phrase
that stood out to you meant to the original audience, and what the author might
have been thinking when he wrote it. Picture yourself in the setting and
context of the passage. Play out the scenario in your head. Think about the
specific part of the passage that spoke directly to you. Focus intently on why
the Holy Spirit might have chosen these words to speak to you today. Reflect on
how it might apply to your life. Is it relevant to something that you are going
through? Does it bring to mind a struggle that you have been dealing with? Do
certain people come to mind that God may want you to reach out to or reconcile
a relationship with?

## Oratio (prayer)

The next step is to take all the thoughts, feelings, actions, fears,
convictions, and questions you have meditated on and offer them to the Lord in
prayer.  Praise God for who he is.  If you feel convicted about a poor
relationship, simply apologize, request forgiveness, and ask for guidance on
restoring the relationship. If you feel thankful for something that God has
done for you, then pour out those feelings of thanksgiving. If you feel a
specific anxiety about something in your life, present it to the Lord and pray
for the guidance and peace to be able to submit to God's will. Simply talk to
God and tell him what you are feeling, just like you would with a good friend
or family member.

## Contemplatio (contemplation)

The "task" in this stage is to simply be silent in the presence of God (Psalm
46:10).  This is one of the most essential aspects for building a growing
relationship with the Lord. Many testify that at the end of a lectio divina
session one has a feeling of closeness and intimacy with the Lord. One of the
most valuable things that we can do with this feeling is to relax and embrace
it.  Just "be" with God.

Part of contemplation (some people make this a separate stage called
Incarnatioâ€“"living") is to commit yourself, with the help of God, to "do" the
truth that he has implanted in your heart.  It is our submitting to God's Word,
our living it out, that God is calling us to (e.g., James 1:22-25, Matthew
7:15-27, Romans 2:12-16).  Living out our faith is a following of Jesus that
happens naturally as we know Christ and become like him.

At the end of the contemplation stage of a particular portion of Scripture, you
will naturally come to a place where you are done.  Your choice then is to
repeat the process with another passage or phrase from Scripture or simply
close off your lectio divina session with a prayer of thanksgiving.
